hey I'm Bobby I like to make stuff today
we're going to turn this stuff into this
halloween is in just a couple of weeks
you still have plenty of time to make a
costume out of EA phone for me this is
just a prop not a costume but all the
principles and the construction are the
same
let's get into it i'm using my life cast
here but you could use a Styrofoam head
and it would work just the same I cover
the top of it with a big piece of
aluminum foil and then sprayed on some
spray adhesive to add more pieces i just
wanted to make sure that i had full
coverage all the way down to the bottom
of the neck the foil will tear really
easily so cover the whole thing with
duct tape
this will help me cut it up into pieces
for a pattern i learned this patterning
technique from evil ted smith he's got a
fantastic video about making helmet
patterns go check it out its link down
in the description i started by making
marks for where my brow line was and the
center of the nose the center of the
forehead and then roughly drew in the
eyes i drew lines where I thought the
different panels should be and then made
some marks across those lines so that i
could connect them up later then I
started cutting down the lines to get
the individual panels to make the
pattern from now this was a best-guess
in my case and I'll show you why this
didn't really work in a little bit but
the principle is the same
I cut out all these different pieces but
they were formed to my head so they
needed to be flattened out I cut some
darts in these pieces so that they would
lay flat
i'm not sure that i did this the right
way but it worked pretty well once i got
them basically flat then I laid them out
on some TV a phone i use push pins to
hold these in place so that i can trace
their outline with a sharpie
you'll notice i only made patterns for
one side of the head
I flip these pieces over and trace them
again to get the opposite sides through
this entire project i was checking
against images that I've gotten online
as a reference
it's really important to get as many
different views of whatever proper
costume you're trying to make as you
possibly can i cut all these pieces of
foam out some with a knife and then I
decided to move on and use the bandsaw
just to get nicer cuts all of my initial
cuts we're at 90 degrees they are
perpendicular to the material but some
of these pieces actually needed to be
beveled to get the shape that I want for
this I use the belt sander to sand down
and add a bevel to certain sides to
assemble these pieces i used barge
contact cement you put it on two
different pieces and let it dry for
about five minutes then when you stick
them together they are instantly bonded
also whenever these with the heat gun
that makes it easy to bend them and when
you're really catching these darts you
need them to form into the curve that
they originally had once i got these
pieces put back together i need to
attach them to each other and it was
just more cement to get all of the seams
lined up
i started at one end and then press the
seam together all the way to the other
end it was actually starting to take
shape had to do quite a bit of sanding
and beveling to get all of the seams to
line up but after a while I got them all
stuck together at this point I had to
start modifying my original pieces they
were going to fit together and a lot of
the things that I thought might work
before actually wouldn't work i had to
completely cut off the little ears just
to glue up the main shape of the helmet
I was starting to worry at this point if
it was actually going to work out but i
wanted to get the main helmet shape in
place just to be sure I started
adjusting things like the nose to try to
get the more correct shape and had to
cut out an area in the chin piece i drew
out another piece to fill in that gap
and make it closer to the correct shape
cut a little notch out of the backside
of this so that it could Bend without
having a seam on the front and then I
beveled the corner so that they would
match up with the other 10 pieces so far
everything had been a bunch of separate
flat plains but I needed a lot more
definition
and to make it start looking the right
way based on my reference images and
driven markzware I thought the nose
should be in the different parts of the
eyes there were actually multiple levels
of depth here around the eyes so i just
drew them in with a sharpie i just used
a knife to open these eyes up to get
closer to the right shape i also use an
orbital sander with some fine grit paper
to try to smooth over some of the seams
between the different panels i needed to
remove some material on each side of the
nose but it had to be a hard-line I made
a little sanding block with some spray
adhesive and then I held a ruler up to
the line that I wanted and sanded
alongside this guide helped me not to
have a ramp but instead hardline sand in
the material we're gonna stop right
there
I worked on this for about a day and the
more I look at it it's just not right
so I compared the shape of this to the
reference image and I figured out
exactly what the problem is the patterns
for this were made to match the contour
of my head but the outside of the helmet
that actually want to make is not the
same shape this one is far too rounded
and the side still go up far enough i
could sculpt that in but i think i'm
going to actually start over
I reached out to build around from
punish props to ask him what he thought
i should do and his advice was this
he told me to build up the shape of the
lifecast to actually get the general
shape that I want the outside of the
helmet to be then make a pattern off of
that and create new phone from there so
we're going to start over
ok so I've done a lot of work off camera
that haven't shown you but essentially
it's the same as the first helmet that i
showed you the shapes are just a little
bit different this is the fourth helmet
that I made of this design everyone i've
tried something different with the
patterning this one is the closest I've
gotten so far and this is the 1 i'm just
going to go with to continue working if
you do want to make this specific helmet
the way that I found it works best is to
put a seam right here have two panels on
the front and then big side panels and
then you have a large area that's
relatively flat on the top and a back
panel like I said this is not the final
shape but this is a pretty good place to
work from
I continue to make changes based on the
reference images there is still a lot of
extra material and the overall shape
wasn't quite right
i used a knife in a sander to get closer
to the shape that I wanted it to be the
belt sander really helps you blend where
panels join in case you don't need a
hard-edged based on the reference images
i marked where I thought the little ears
should go and then measured them i
transfer those sizes to some foam and
cut out some pieces that were roughly
the right size
I held them in place and roughly
throughout the curve of the helmet then
through trial and error I shape them to
fit with the belt standard once i had
basically in place i flipped it over and
traced it as a reference and then made
another one and glued them on with
contacts in this helmet has a neck guard
on the back of it so i cut a strip of
foam and they cut the right angle on one
side I figured out the length of this
piece and then cut the same angle on the
other end i used a metal ruler to draw a
taper from the center point out to both
ends and then cut them off with the
night when I was happy with the shape i
just use some contact cement to get it
in place
[Music]
to make the intentions on each side of
the helmet i just made a really shallow
cut with a knife along a straight edge
and when you hit with the heat gun it
opens up and looks like an intention to
feel the seams in between all these
different panels i just used some
caulking this stuff set up in just a
couple of minutes so you can keep
working
it's really good for filling in seems in
between panels or sometimes they're just
defects in the phone that you need to
fill make sure you use a wet paper towel
to get a nice smooth transition from the
cocking surface to the foam surface at
this point i tried it on and it was
crushing my ears so I used a dremel tool
with a sanding drum to remove some of
the material around my ears if it a lot
better shape was basically done so i
needed to add some battle damage to do
this i started with a sharpie and a
straight edge and drew the lines and all
the places that I wanted there to be
cuts our intentions then i use the blade
and cut along these lines and then use
the heat gun to open them up just like I
did before I wanted to seal up the phone
so it would take paint and it would last
a lot longer i use latex for this mix it
with water to thin it out and then I
added some heavy body silver to it i
sprayed on for five coats over a couple
of days to get a nice solid finish
Batman seems to be wearing a mask
underneath his helmet so I put a piece
of paper inside this helmet and then
traced out the outline based on the
images i drew what i thought this piece
should look like and then added some
extra material around the other side's
for this piece i use two millimeter
black craft foam it's the same type of
foam is just a lot thinner i trace this
out on the phone and then I flipped it
over and line up the very center point
of the chin trace it again and then just
cut this piece out with a knife again I
used barge to put this in place
I just made sure that it was an even
placement on both sides of the mask then
it was time to do some weathering and to
do this they use black acrylic paint
mixed with a whole lot of water i used a
wide sponge brush to cover a big area at
a time I didn't want to leave it on too
long so i used a wet paper towel to wipe
it off
I just moved from panel to panel trying
to add some texture the paint seeps down
in the defects of the foam and the cuts
that you've made it really adds an
awesome character to it here you can see
one side that's weather compared to the
side that's not after i finished the
dark weathering on the entire helmet i
went back and added some highlights this
technique is called drybrushing to do
this i used a bright silver paint put
just a tiny bit on the brush and then
went over the high points of the helmet
this is basically supposed to mimic the
edges that have gotten worn down to the
bare metal it's really easy to overdo
the weathering process you don't want to
do too much or it's just gonna lose its
effect just a little bit of dry brushing
goes a really long way
the last thing to add was the glowing
eyes first I followed the same process
as i did before around the chin to make
some pieces of foam to go around the
eyes a trace the shape transferred into
phone and cut it out i want the local
craft stores i found these little mesh
gift bags you can still see through them
but at a distance they look like a solid
white i folded them over to get double
the thickness and then glue them onto
the back of each one of these I panels
using spray adhesive to hold them in
place first but then eventually had to
use some hot glue to actually get all of
the different layers to be held in place
I turned off the outside and then glued
these onto the inside of the helmet and
that looked pretty cool but they need to
glow for that i use some simple
batteries and leds nothing complicated
they use to double A's and six LEDs here
I made a little piece of foam to fit
inside the brow and then hot glued LEDs
three above each I i use some electrical
tape to separate the leads of all the
LEDs so that i can wire them up without
worrying about them shorting out i
soldered all the anodes together and all
the cathodes together then i soldered
onto pieces of wire that went directly
to the battery this is a super simple
circuit but an easy way to get leds then
I hot glued this panel right above the
brow and i will say it's extremely
uncomfortable on your brow but the ice
blue
to protect the paint i put on a couple
of coats of Matt clear then it was all
done I'm not gonna lie to you and say
that this wasn't a huge amount of work
but it was totally worth it
it took four tries to get to this point
but I learned a whole lot about the
material on about the process of making
a helmet which is just stuff that I
didn't expect so next time I think I'll
have a lot better idea how to use the
form that i made to get the shapes that
I want that I didn't use my head
sculpting to make this fit my head so
technically it fits but it actually
doesn't fit very well and the LEDs up
here pushing on your brow make it pretty
uncomfortable i'll try it on for you
guys but this is probably the last time
I'll ever put it on it kind of fits but
it's extremely uncomfortable up here on
the brow i hope you like the helmet let
me know what you think about it down in
the comments below
I've got lots of other project videos
and a few more foam ones that you might
be interested in
don't forget to subscribe to our main
and my second channel that's it for this
one guys thanks for watching see you
next time Martha